.\"
.\"	@(#)trash
.\"
.Dd January 28, 1999
.Dt TRASH 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm trash
.Nd filesystem trash manager
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm trash
.Op Fl dfiPpRrW
.Ar file ...
.Nm trash
.Fl e Op Fl fiP
.Op Ar file ...
.Nm trash
.Fl l
.Op Ar file ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility moves "deleted" files and directories
to a per-device trashcan,
from which they can be restored
until the contents of the trashcan itself is purged.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Fl
.It Fl d
Transfer empty directories as well as other types of files to the trashcan.
.It Fl e
Purge
.Ar files
from trashcan so that they can no longer be restored.
If
.Ar file
is not given, purge entire trashcan contents.
.It Fl f
Force - i.e., ignore warnings and without prompting.
The
.Fl f
option overrides any previous
.Fl i
options.
.It Fl h
Show this message, then exit.
.It Fl i
Prompt for confirmation before transfering each
.Ar file .
The
.Fl i
option overrides any previous
.Fl f
options.
.It Fl l
List any
.Ar files
in trashcan.
If no
.Ar file
is given, list entire trashcan contents.
.It Fl P
Overwrite regular
.Ar files
before purging.
The
.Fl P
option implies option
.Fl p .
.It Fl p
Purge
.Ar files
so that they cannot be restored.
.It Fl R
Recursively transfer directory hierarchies to the trashcan.
The
.Fl R
option supercedes option
.Fl d .
.It Fl r
Equivalent to
.Fl R .
.It Fl V
Show version, then exit.
.It Fl v
Report diagnostics.
.It Fl W
Restore
.Ar files
in trashcan to working directory.
.El
.Pp
The
.Nm
utility removes symbolic links, not the files referenced by the links.
.Pp
It is an error to attempt to remove the files ``.'' and ``..''.
.Pp
The
.Nm
utility exits 0 if all of the named files or file hierarchies were removed,
or if the
.Fl f
option was specified and all of the existing files or file hierarchies were
removed.
If an error occurs,
.Nm
exits with a value >0.
.Sh NOTE
The
.Nm
command uses
.Xr getopt 3
to parse its arguments, which allows it to accept
the
.Sq Li --
option which will cause it to stop processing flag options at that
point.  This will allow the removal of file names that begin
with a dash
.Pq Sq - .
For example:
.Dl trash -- -filename
The same behavior can be obtained by using an absolute or relative
path reference.  For example:
.Dl trash /home/user/-filename
.Dl trash ./-filename
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr rmdir 1 ,
.Xr undelete 2 ,
.Xr unlink 2 ,
.Xr fts 3 ,
.Xr getopt 3 ,
.Xr symlink 7
.Sh BUGS
Option
.Fl P
overwrites only regular files
or, in the case of
.Fl RP ,
the regular files in a directory hierarchy.
.Sh COMPATIBILITY
The
.Nm
utility differs from historical implementations in that the
.Fl f
option only masks attempts to remove non-existent files instead of
masking a large variety of errors.
.Pp
Also, historical
.Bx
implementations prompted on the standard output,
not the standard error output.
.Sh STANDARDS
The
.Nm
command is almost
.St -p1003.2
compatible, except that
.Tn POSIX
requires
.Nm trash
to act like
.Xr rmdir 1
when the
.Ar file
specified is a directory.  This implementation requires the
.Fl d
option if such behavior is desired.  This follows the historical
behavior of
.Nm
with respect to directories.
.Sh HISTORY
A
.Nm
command appeared in
.At v1 .
